---
title: "s41928-021-00707-5"
date: "2026-07-07"
tags: []
summary: "金刚石绝缘化技术调研子文档"
---
news & views
WIDE-BANDGAP MATERIALS
Diamond electronics with high carrier mobilities
Field-effect transistors based on heterojunctions of hydrogen-terminated diamond and hexagonal boron nitride can
offer surface carrier mobilities as high as 680 cm2 V–1 s–1.
Moshe Tordjman
T
he development of high-power and  electric breakdown field (more than   charge carriers in the semiconducting
high-frequency electronics with  10 MV cm–1), thermal conductivity (more  diamond bulk2. In the early 2000s,
improved performance is needed to  than 20 W cm–1 K–1) and intrinsic carrier  surface conductivity was discovered in
meet the ever-increasing energy demands  mobility (more than 3,500 cm2 V–1 s–1), and  hydrogen-terminated diamond3, which led
of the electrical power industry. Devices  is expected to outperform GaAs, GaN and  to the diamond surface transfer doping
| SiC (ref. 1). But realizing the full potential  |     |     | model4. This mechanism consists of  |     |     |
| ----------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | ----------------------------------- | --- | --- |
based on wide-bandgap materials were
traditionally seen as best suited for this  of diamond-based electronic devices has  electron exchange between a semiconductor
task because they can sustain fast switching  proved challenging due to the difficulties  (hydrogen-terminated diamond) and
frequencies and have high power densities  involved in transforming the material from  a surface dopant acceptor (aqueous
and a decent thermal dissipation rate.  an insulator to a semiconductor. molecules) with high electron affinity.
Nevertheless, traditional wide-bandgap  Efforts in the 1980s and 1990s to  A two-dimensional hole gas forms at the
materials that are currently in wide use,  incorporate impurities into the bulk crystal  hydrogen-terminated diamond sub-surface
such as gallium arsenide (GaAs), gallium  lattice of diamond via conventional doping  and results in p-type surface conductivity at
nitride (GaN) and silicon carbide (SiC),  procedures were unsuccessful in creating  ambient conditions, with a sheet hole carrier
concentration of around 1013 cm–2 and
show limitations in their performances due  a room-temperature semiconducting
carrier mobility of several tens of cm2 V–1 s–1.
to poor physical material characteristics. material. This was mainly due to the high
A promising alternative wide-bandgap  activation energy of acceptor and donor  Surface transfer doping of
material is diamond. It offers a high critical  dopants, which are required to ignite mobile  hydrogen-terminated diamond has led to
a b
|     | 1,000 |     |     |     | 1015 |
| --- | ----- | --- | --- | --- | ---- |
Mobility
| Graphite | 900 |               |     |           |     |
| -------- | --- | ------------- | --- | --------- | --- |
| (gate)   |     | Sheet density |     |           |     |
|          | 800 |               |     | Graphite/ |     |
h-BN/
diamond:H 1014
700
|     | )1–s 1–V 2mc( ytilibom reirraC |     |     |     | Sheet carrier density (cm |
| --- | ------------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | ------------------------- |
h-BN
600
H
| h-BN  | 500 |     |     |     |      |
| ----- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---- |
| (gate |     |     | C   |     | 1013 |
insulator)
|     | 400 |     | TMO |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
h-BN/diamond:H
|     | 300 | HO  |     |     | −2  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|     |     | 2   |     |     | )   |
1012
|     | 200 | H   | H   |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|     |     | C   | C   |     |     |
100
| Hydrogen- | Molecules/diamond:H |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | ------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
terminated
| diamond | 0   |     | TMO/diamond:H |     |     |
| ------- | --- | --- | ------------- | --- | --- |
1011
|     | 2000 | 2004 2008 | 2012 | 2016 2020 | 2024 |
| --- | ---- | --------- | ---- | --------- | ---- |
Year
Fig. 1 | Hydrogen-terminated diamond heterostuctures with enhanced carrier mobility. a, Schematic diagram of the heterostructure consisting of graphite/hBN/
hydrogen-terminated diamond. b, Benchmark comparison of various diamond surface conductivity performances at room temperature. Hole carrier mobilities
and sheet carrier densities versus the year achieved. Also shown are schematics of the hydrogen-terminated diamond (diamond:H) heterostructures for different
surface transfer doping methods. Molecular species interfaced with diamond:H (turquoise sphere), transition-metal oxides (TMO) interfaced with diamond:H
(red sphere) and hBN interfaced with diamond:H (blue spheres), as reported by Takahide and colleagues10,12. Panel a reproduced with permission from ref. 10,
Springer Nature Ltd.
Nature electroNics | VOL 5 | JANuAry 2022 | 21–22 | www.nature.com/natureelectronics 21

news & views
the development of a number of diamond carrier scattering and is what has limited 1 kΩ sq–1 and the metal–diamond contact
devices. However, these devices suffer from surface carrier mobility in previous resistance should be lowered to the order
instability against temperature fluctuations hydrogen-terminated diamond FETs11. of 0.1 Ω mm. Finally, room-temperature
and a loss in surface conductivity due to A FET based on this h-BN/diamond stack electron carrier (n-type) diamond
the volatile nature of the surface molecule architecture was reported by Takahide and conductivity needs to be achieved. ❐
acceptors5. Since 2013, transition-metal colleagues in 201812. There, hBN was used as
oxides have been employed as solid-state a gate dielectric and the device exhibited a Moshe Tordjman 1,2 ✉
surface acceptors for hydrogen-terminated carrier mobility of 300 cm2 V–1 s–1 and a sheet 1Microsystems Technology Laboratories,
diamond6–8. This approach has improved hole carrier density of 5 × 1012 cm–2. In their Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
the thermal robustness of the diamond present work, the h-BN/diamond interface MA, USA. 2Solid State Institute and Physics
surface conductivity (up to 450 °C), and led has been upgraded with an additional Department, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology,
to record sheet hole carrier concentrations crystalline thin graphite layer on top, which Haifa, Israel.
of 2 × 1014 cm–2, but still with limited carrier acts as the gate electrode over the gate ✉e-mail: tordjman@mit.edu
mobilities of 10–100 cm2 V–1 s–1 (ref. 9). dielectric (hBN), further reducing disorder
Writing in Nature Electronics, Yamaguchi at the interface between the gate dielectric Published online: 12 January 2022
Takahide and colleagues now report and the FET gate electrode. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41928-021-00707-5
hydrogen-terminated diamond field-effect These advances could allow diamond to
References
transistors (FETs) with ambient surface carrier be used in low-loss fast switching devices,
1. Geis, M. W. et al. Phys. Status Solidi A 215, 1800681 (2018).
mobilities as high as 680 cm2 V–1 s–1 and high-frequency power amplifiers and other 2. Kalish, R. J. Phys. D 40, 6467–6478 (2007).
sheet hole carrier densities of 5 × 1012 cm–2 radio-frequency FET device applications. 3. Maier, F., Riedel, M., Mantel, B., Ristein, J. & Ley, L. Phys. Rev.
(ref. 10) (Fig. 1). They also mean that diamond currently has Lett. 85, 3472–3475 (2000).
4. Ristein, J. Nature 430, 439–441 (2004).
The researchers — who are based at the the highest hole carrier (p-type) mobility of
5. Chen, W., Qi, D., Gao, X. & Wee, A. T. S. Prog. Surf. Sci. 84,
National Institute for Materials Science in any wide-bandgap material (in comparison, 279–321 (2009).
Tsukuba and the University of Tsukuba GaN offers a carrier mobility of 30 cm2 V–1 s–1 6. Tordjman, M., Saguy, C., Bolker, A. & Kalish, R. Adv. Mater.
Interf. 1, 1300155 (2014).
— use laminated two-dimensional layers and SiC offers a carrier mobility of less than
7. Crawford, K. G. et al. Sci. Rep. 8, 3342 (2018).
of monocrystalline hexagonal boron 17 cm2 V–1 s–1), as well as other superior 8. Tordjman, M., Weinfeld, K. & Kalish, R. Appl. Phys. Lett. 111,
nitride (hBN) at the interface with the intrinsic physical properties, including 111601 (2017).
9. Yin, Z. et al. Sci. Adv. 4, eaau0480 (2018).
hydrogen-terminated diamond surface. The breakdown field and thermal conductivity.
10. Sasama, Y. et al. Nat. Electron. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41928-021-
hBN/diamond heterojunction is shown to However, a number of challenges still need 00689-4 (2021).
improve the quality of the two-dimensional to be addressed in order to achieve the full 11. Sasama, Y. et al. J. Appl. Phys. 127, 185707 (2020).
12. Sasama, Y. et al. APL Mater. 6, 111105 (2018).
hole gas channel by effectively reducing potential of diamond electronics. The sheet
the number of surface charged impurities, hole carrier density needs to be improved Competing interests
which are the predominant cause of to reduce the sheet resistance to below The author declares no competing interests.
22 Nature electroNics | VOL 5 | JANuAry 2022 | 21–22 | www.nature.com/natureelectronics
