Chemical Engineering Journal 500 (2024) 157259
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Chemical Engineering Journal
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/cej
Insights into sulfamethazine degradation by peroxymonosulfate activation
using H reduced hematite in high-salinity wastewater: Performances
2
and mechanisms
Guomin Zhua,b, Jing Dinga,c, Annan Doua, Qiyan Xua,*, Jingling Yangb,*, Yilong Jia,
Gang Lub,*, Mingshan Zhub
aKey Laboratory of Metallurgical Emission Reduction & Resources Recycling (Ministry of Education), School of Metallurgical Engineering, Anhui University of
Technology, Ma’anshan 243032, China
bCollege of Environment and Climate, Jinan University, Guangzhou 511443, China
cMagang (Group) Holding Co., Ltd, Ma’anshan, 243003, China
A R T I C L E I N F O A B S T R A C T
Keywords: Sulfamethazine (SMT) is recognized as a persistent, bioaccumulate, and toxic antibiotic pollutant that is difficult
Hydrogen reduced hematite to be completely eliminated through traditional wastewater treatment methods. Although advanced oxidation
Peroxymonosulfate processes (AOPs) utilizing peroxymonosulfate (PMS) have demonstrated potential in degrading SMT, the lack of
Sulfamethazine
inexpensive and efficient PMS activators remains a significant obstacle for its practical application. In this study,
High-salinity wastewater we present the synthesis of a highly effective PMS activator, the naturally-occurring minerals-based material (cid:0)
Degradation pathway
H2 – reduced hematite (HRH), on an industrial scale using a fluidized bed reactor. Impressively, within the PMS
AOPs system, the synthesized HRH catalyst not only achieves 99.3 % degradation of SMT within 20 min,
demonstrating a remarkable 10-fold increase in the degradation rate compared to pristine hematite, but also
showcases excellent recyclability and durability. Additionally, this HRH/PMS system were proved to effectively
remove SMT under high-salinity conditions. More importantly, through systematic characterization and theo-
retical calculations, an in-depth investigation into the primary activation mechanism and degradation pathway
in this reaction process is provided. This work provided a highly feasible strategy for the application of natural
mineral-based catalyst for the degradation of pollutants via PMS activation in high-salinity wastewater.
1. Introduction and swift reaction rates. Various activation methods for PMS were
available, including UV activation, ultrasound activation, thermal acti-
Sulfamethazine (SMT), a representative sulfonamide drug, can vation, and catalytic activation [9–12]. However, the widespread
impact the function of the urinary system upon entering the human adoption of UV, ultrasound, and thermal activation in water treatment
body, potentially causing adverse reactions such as crystalluria and entailed substantial energy consumption, resulting in elevated process
hematuria, and even carcinogenic effects [1]. Furthermore, SMT was expenses.
prone to crystallization in urine, contributing to the formation of stones Transition metal catalysts (e.g., Co, Ag, Cu and Fe) could activate
and consequent renal damage [2]. However, owing to the stable struc- persulfates at ambient temperature and pressure, facilitating the
ture of SMT, traditional wastewater treatment processes had limited degradation of organic pollutants into less harmful substances, thus of-
effectiveness in its removal [3]. To address this challenge, considerable fering a viable solution for sustainable wastewater treatment [13–17].
attention was directed towards advanced oxidation processes (AOPs) Nevertheless, the use of heavy metals posed potential concerns, as they
relying on peroxymonosulfate (PMS) activation to produce highly might leach into the reaction system, leading to environmental
reactive oxygen species (ROS) [4–8]. This technology was highly contamination and endangering both environmental ecosystems and
esteemed for its simplicity, cost-effectiveness, high oxidation–reduction human health. To tackle these challenges, an increasing number of re-
potential, strong pH adaptability, prolonged half-life of free radicals, searchers were actively exploring environmentally friendly Fe-based
* Corresponding authors.
E-mail addresses: qiyan.xu@163.com(Q. Xu), yangjl@jnu.edu.cn(J. Yang), Clark_hit@163.com(G. Lu).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2024.157259
Received 20 August 2024; Received in revised form 20 October 2024; Accepted 29 October 2024
Available online 5 November 2024
1385-8947/© 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

G. Zhu et al. C h e m i c a l E n g i n e e r i n g J o u r n a l 500 (2024) 157259
Fig. 1. The utilization of mineral resource in high salinity water pollution treatment.
activation agents [18,19]. Fe as a relatively safe element with wide- hematite, from hematite powder particles using hydrogen reduction.
spread natural occurrence, held significant promise for degrading The effectiveness of HRH in activating PMS for the degradation of SMT
organic pollutants, thereby potentially playing a pivotal role in envi- was evaluated, demonstrating the utilization of mineral resource in high
ronmental protection and sustainable development [20]. salinity water pollution treatment, as shown in Fig. 1. A comprehensive
Natural Fe-based minerals consisted of Fe oxides mixed with other investigation was conducted into the performance of the HRH/PMS
elements, forming complex phase compositions and morphologies. They process for SMT degradation under varied conditions. Additionally, the
possessed abundant surface active sites, constituting various catalytic mechanism by which HRH material activates PMS was elucidated, and
centers, which exhibited certain catalytic activity and stability. Addi- the pathways for SMT degradation were proposed.
tionally, due to their large reserves and low cost, these minerals held
significant promise as advanced oxidation catalysts. Furthermore, the 2. Materials and methods
micron-level control of iron ore powder particle size ensured good
flowability, aiding rapid diffusion in wastewater, while their inherent 2.1. Materials and chemicals
magnetism facilitated convenient recovery and treatment [20]. Kang
et al. demonstrated the activation of persulfate with hematite, resulting The detailed information about chemicals was available in Text S1 of
in the generation of high-valence Fe species that accelerated the Supporting information.
oxidative degradation of organic compounds [21]. Guo et al. achieved
complete degradation of levofloxacin within 120 min using a natural 2.2. HRH catalysts production
hematite-assisted persulfate activation catalyst [22]. However, the cat-
alytic effect of hematite was less than ideal, often requiring high con- The HRH material was synthesized through the hydrogen reduction
centrations of catalyst and persulfate to achieve pollutant degradation, of hematite powder. The preparation procedure for HRH material was
primarily due to its low Fe(II) content. Qin et al. reported the prepara- outlined as follows: The experiment commenced with ensuring adequate
tion of oxygen vacancy-rich α-Fe2O3 by calcining α-FeOOH at high air tightness of the entire apparatus. A specific quantity of hematite
temperatures. Under conditions of low PMS concentration and oxygen powder was weighed and introduced into the fluidized bed reactor,
vacancy-rich α-Fe2O3, they achieved 91.5 % degradation of SMX within which was then heated using a resistance furnace. Upon reaching the
60 min [23]. During the practical application of high-salinity waste- target temperature of 1073 K within the fluidized bed reactor, nitrogen
water treatment, high concentrations of anions underwent side reactions gas (N2) was introduced for a duration of 5 min. Subsequently, after
with free radicals, thereby further inhibiting the effectiveness of Fe- purging the reactor of air, the flow rate of the reducing gas, hydrogen
based catalysts in activating persulfate for pollutant degradation. (H2), was adjusted to 0.5 m/s using a flowmeter, maintaining the flu-
Currently, the primary approach had been to adjust the non-radical re- idized bed temperature at 1073 K for a reduction period of 50 min.
action pathway dominated by singlet oxygen (1O2) to enhance resistance Following the completion of the reduction process, N2 was reintroduced
to inorganic anion interference. Zhang et al. had attempted to activate for another 5 min to shield the ore powder from oxidation. After cooling
PMS by synthesizing N-doped porous carbon with Fe nanoparticles to to room temperature, the reduced product was extracted. Besides, the
produce a non-radical reaction dominated by 1O2. Despite this great characterization methods of HRH was shown in Text S2.
progress, the resistance of the hematite/PMS/Vis system to anion
interference was not strong, and the degradation of norfloxacin (NOR)
2.3. Experimental procedure
was significantly inhibited [24]. Additionally, the non-radical reactions
dominated by 1O2 were relatively mild and might not effectively
All experiments were conducted in 50 mL beakers. A specified
degrade certain structurally stable pollutants. Therefore, there was an
quantity of HRH was added to a 40 mL solution of SMT in each beaker,
urgent need for a method to modify and transform the surface structure
followed by a 30-min adsorption treatment with light shielding. After
and composition of hematite powder, activating PMS to produce a large
the adsorption process, a predetermined amount of PMS was added to
amount of abundant
•
OH and SO4
•-
to mitigate the negative impact of
initiate the degradation reaction. Samples of 0.9 mL were collected at
high salinity and achieve rapid degradation of pollutant. specified time intervals and filtered through a 0.22 µm membrane filter.
This study synthesized a novel material, termed hydrogen-reduced Subsequently, 100 µL of 0.02 M Na2S2O3 was added to terminate the
2

G. Zhu et al. C h e m i c a l E n g i n e e r i n g J o u r n a l 500 (2024) 157259
Fig. 2. (a) Photographs of hematite and HRH; SEM images of hematite (b) and HRH (c); X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns (d), Fourier-transform infrared (FTIR)
spectra (e), and Nyquist plots (f) of hematite and HRH.
reaction. The concentration of SMT in the solution post-reaction was
analyzed using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The f A (2)=f A +(cid:0) f A (cid:0) =2qA (N)(cid:0) qA (N(cid:0) 1)(cid:0) qA (N+1) (3)
toxicity of SMT and its degradation products was evaluated using the Here, fA (2) denotes the DD value for atom A, while qA represents the
Toxicity Estimation Software Tool (T.E.S.T). The methods of HPLC and electron population of atom A.
LC-TOF-MS were displayed in Table S1and Text S3.
The influence of various parameters (SMT concentration, PMS
3. Results and discussion
dosage, HRH dosage, pH value, anion, and temperature) on the degra-
dation of SMT in the HRH/PMS system was investigated. To assess the
3.1. Characterization of catalysts
impact of solution pH on SMT degradation, 0.01 M NaOH or HCl was
utilized to adjust the solution pH. MeOH, TBA, and PBQ were employed
As depicted in Fig. 2a, under high-temperature conditions at 1073 K,
as scavengers for free radicals to elucidate the degradation mechanism
hematite powder underwent reduction with hydrogen gas, resulting in a
of SMT in the HRH/PMS system. To evaluate the recyclability of the
color change from reddish-brown to black. SEM images Fig. 2(b-c)
HRH material, HRH was collected via centrifugation after each cycle,
reveal that the hematite powder possesses a relatively smooth surface
washed with anhydrous ethanol and distilled water, dried in a vacuum
structure, whereas the HRH material exhibits irregular crystal structures
freeze dryer, and then reused. All experiments were conducted in trip- ranging from 1 to 2 μm in size [25]. From Fig. 2d, characteristic
licate, and the mean values were calculated along with the standard diffraction peaks of hematite powder are observed at 20.86◦, 26.64◦,
deviation. and 50.14◦, corresponding to the (100), (011), and (112) of SiO2 (PDF
The degradation kinetics of SMT were fitted using a pseudo-first- #99–0088). Additionally, diffraction peaks at 33.38◦, 35.88◦, 62.64◦,
order model, and the apparent rate constant k was calculated accord- and 64.12◦are detected, corresponding to the (104), (110), (300), and
ing to Eq. (1), where C represents the concentration of SMT after a (125) planes of Fe2O3 (PDF #33–0664). In comparison, the X-ray
certain reaction time, and C0 denotes the initial concentration of SMT.
diffraction (XRD) spectrum of HRH exhibits characteristic diffraction
ln(C/C0 )= (cid:0) kt (1) peaks of SiO2, along with strong diffraction peaks at 2θ =35.56◦, 44.76◦,
(cid:0) and 65.06◦, corresponding to the (311) plane of Fe3O4 and the (110) and
Due to the PMS can react with I , the PMS utilization efficiency in
(200) planes of Fe. Therefore, the XRD results indicate that Fe2O3 in the
different systems can be obtained by coupling the SMT removal rate
hematite powder is reduced to Fe3O4 and Fe by hydrogen gas [26]. As
with the colorimetric method and then calculated by a specific formula,
illustrated in Fig. 2e, multiple different functional groups appear on the
following Eq. (2), where [SMT] and [PMS] are the total decomposed surfaces of both hematite and HRH. Peaks observed at 790 and 467 cm (cid:0) 1
amounts of SMT and PMS, respectively.
correspond to the vibration of Fe-O bonds; the stretching vibration peak
PMSutilizationefficiency=Δn[SMT]/Δn[PMS] (2) at 3442 cm (cid:0) 1 corresponds to the free –OH group; peaks near 1634 and
1418 cm (cid:0) 1 are attributed to the stretching vibrations of surface-bound
water O-H and –OH groups; peaks at 1092 and 1033 cm (cid:0) 1 are associ-
2.4. Computational methods ated with C–C stretching and bending vibrations; the peak at 690 cm (cid:0) 1 is
attributed to the symmetric stretching vibration of Si–O–Si. The peak at
The reaction sites for the degradation of SMT were predicted using 544 cm (cid:0) 1 observed solely in HRH is attributed to bare ZVI particles,
Gaussian and Multiwfn software [25], employing the B3LYP/6-31G confirming the generation of zero-valent iron after hydrogen reduction
level. Following structural optimization, dual descriptor (DD) indices of hematite powder [27].
fA (2) were selected to characterize nucleophilicity and electrophilicity, As depicted in Fig. S1, the specific surface area of hematite powder
where a larger absolute value indicates higher susceptibility to attack. measured 12.14 m2/g with an average pore size of 7.64 nm, whereas the
To compute fA (2) for each atom A, the following Eq. (3)was utilized: HRH material exhibited a specific surface area of 6.25 m2/g with an
3

G. Zhu et al. C h e m i c a l E n g i n e e r i n g J o u r n a l 500 (2024) 157259
Fig. 3. (a) Efficiency of different processes for SMT removal and (b) the corresponding plots of (cid:0) ln(C/C0) versus reaction time; (c) Performance comparison of SMT
degradation and PMS utilization under different catalyst activation conditions; (d) Influence of HRH dosage, initial SMT concentration, and PMS dosage on the SMT
degradation performance in the HRH/PMS system, respectively. Experimental conditions: [Catalyst] =0.2 g/L, [PMS] =0.2 g/L, [SMT] =10 mg/L, initial pH =7,
temperature =298 K.
Fig. 4. Degradation performance of different pollutants in the HRH/PMS process. Experimental conditions: [HRH] =0.2 g/L, [PMS] =0.2 g/L, [pollutants] =10
mg/L, initial pH =7, temperature =298 K.
average pore size of 22.29 nm. Experimental findings revealed that the hematite catalyst for PMS was found to be restricted, with only a
following high-temperature fluidized-bed reduction in hydrogen, mul- 22.0 % removal ratio of SMT. Conversely, simultaneous utilization of
tiple hematite powder agglomerated, resulting in a reduction in the PMS and HRH significantly enhanced the degradation rate of SMT,
specific surface area of the HRH material and an enlargement in pore achieving near-complete degradation in just 20 min. From Fig. 3b, it was
size [28]. EIS (Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy) results (Fig. 2f) evident that the first-order kinetic rate constant (k) of PMS and hema-
indicate that the semicircle diameter of HRH is smaller than that of tite/PMS was notably low, whereas that of HRH/PMS reached 0.135
hematite, suggesting that HRH has a higher electron transfer capability min (cid:0) 1, surpassing hematite/PMS by a factor of 10. Additionally, a
than hematite, which can enhance the rate of Fenton-like reactions [29]. crucial indicator of catalytic performance is the utilization rate of PMS.
Analysis of Fig. 3c reveals that hematite/PMS exhibited slightly superior
performance compared to standalone PMS in terms of SMT degradation
3.2. Catalytic performance and PMS utilization. Remarkably, the HRH/PMS process not only
ensured efficient SMT removal but also significantly enhanced PMS
As depicted in Fig. 3a, we investigated the efficiency of five different utilization, indicating excellent activation capabilities of HRH towards
processes for removing SMT. In the adsorption experiments using he- PMS.
matite and HRH, the SMT concentration remained largely unchanged
after 50 min, indicating that the chosen catalysts lacked specific 3.2.1. Optimization of reaction parameters
adsorption capacity for SMT. This could be attributed to the small sur- The dosage of HRH, SMT and PMS should significantly influenced
face area in these catalysts, resulting in weak adsorption capabilities for the removal efficiency of SMT. Fig. 3d illustrates that increasing HRH
SMT. Notably, in the absence of catalysts, the standalone PMS process dosage from 0.05 g/L to 0.4 g/L raised the corresponding k from 0.070
exhibited relatively weak SMT degradation ability, suggesting a limited to 0.186 min (cid:0) 1. With the higher HRH dosage, more active sites were
self-activation capacity of PMS. Furthermore, the activation ability of
4

G. Zhu et al. C h e m i c a l E n g i n e e r i n g J o u r n a l 500 (2024) 157259
Fig. 5. (a) Effects of different existing anions with concentration of 1000 mg/L, and (b) the corresponding fitted lines plots of (cid:0) ln(C/C0) versus irradiation time (a);
Potential of the HRH/PMS system to remove SMT from high-salinity wastewater: (c) SO4 2-, (d) Cl-, (e) NO3 (cid:0) , (f) above three co-existed anions (mass ratio 1:1:1);
Experimental conditions: [HRH] =0.2 g/L, [PMS] =0.2 g/L, [SMT] =10 mg/L, initial pH =7, temperature =298 K.
Fig. 6. (a) EPR spectra of DMPO-
•
OH/SO4
•-
adducts and (b) EPR spectra of DMPO-O2
•-
adducts in different sample systems; (c) Quenching experiments with varying
molar ratios of quencher in the HRH/PMS system. Experimental conditions: [HRH] =0.2 g/L, [PMS] =0.2 g/L, [SMT] =10 mg/L, initial pH =7, temperature =298
K, n[quencher]: n[PMS] =x:1, where x denotes 1, 10, 100, 1000, 5000, respectively.
5

G. Zhu et al. C h e m i c a l E n g i n e e r i n g J o u r n a l 500 (2024) 157259
Fig. 7. (a) XPS full spectra, (b) high-resolution Fe 2p spectra, and (c) XRD patterns of samples; (d) VSM analysis of samples, insert shows a photograph of the
magnetic separation.
available, enhancing the likelihood of SMT-catalyst contact and thus its adsorption performance, but also triggered rapid corrosion of the
significantly accelerating SMT degradation. Similarly, within the range passive layer on the HRH surface. This corrosion exposed zero-valent
of PMS dosages between 0.05 and 0.2 g/L, augmenting PMS dosage iron inside, releasing a substantial amount of Fe ions, thereby signifi-
boosted the generation of active species, thereby enhancing SMT cantly enhancing the activation ability of PMS and accelerating the re-
removal efficiency, with kobs increasing from 0.060 min (cid:0) 1 to 0.135 action degradation rate [30]. As pH values increased, iron hydroxide
min (cid:0) 1. However, excessive PMS addition did not notably improve SMT formed on the surface of HRH particles, further passivating and inhib-
degradation, potentially due to its occupation of HRH adsorption sites, iting the release of
Fe2+
ions [31]. The impact of different temperatures
diminishing SMT adsorption capacity, and quenching of free radicals, on SMT degradation in the HRH/PMS system was investigated, as
hindering further degradation [29]. SMT solubility at 5 mg/L resulted in depicted in Fig. S3. The degradation reaction rate constant increased
catalyst and chemical wastage; at 20 mg/L, SMT degradation reached from 0.12 min (cid:0) 1 at 298 K to 0.24 min (cid:0) 1 at 328 K, indicating that higher
only 51.15 %, with a decrease in the reaction constant from 0.135 min (cid:0) 1 temperatures promoted the accelerated degradation of SMT in the HRH/
to 0.033 min (cid:0) 1. Optimal HRH and PMS dosages of 0.2 g/L each were PMS system [32].
observed when the initial SMT concentration was 10 mg/L, ensuring
efficient SMT degradation while cost-saving. 3.2.2. Impact of high salinity conditions
Additionally, to evaluate the universality of HRH, we selected five To evaluate the degradation efficiency of the (HRH/PMS) system
other antibiotics and simulated antibiotic wastewater for degradation under various salinity conditions, we investigated the degradation of
experiments (Fig. 4). The HRH/PMS system could rapidly degrade SMT under different high salinity conditions (SO4 2-, Cl-, and NO3 (cid:0) ). Fig. 5a
diclofenac (DCF) within 5 min and completely degrade carbamazepine demonstrates that the introduced 1000 mg/L of high-concentration
(CBZ) within 20 min. In addition, it showed rapid degradation of sul- anions resulted in different behaviors of SMT in the HRH/PMS system.
famethoxazole (SMX), ciprofloxacin (CIP), and norfloxacin (NOR) The existence of Cl- promoted the removal of SMT, with a first-order
within 30 min, thereby preliminarily demonstrating the universality of reaction rate constant of 0.19 min (cid:0) 1 (Fig. 5b), possibly due to the for-
HRH/PMS. mation of chlorine species with high redox potentials, such as hypo-
As illustrated in Fig. S2, the degradation of SMT decreased gradually chlorous acid (HOCl) (Eqs. (4)–(11)), thereby accelerating the removal
with increasing pH values. Under acidic conditions, the concentration of rate of SMT [33–35]. The presence of SO4 2- and NO3 (cid:0) had little effect on
hydrogen ions in the solution not only impacted the structure and sur- the removal efficiency of SMT. Overall, the HRH/PMS system achieved
face charge distribution of HRH functional groups, thereby influencing rapid degradation of SMT under the interference of high concentrations
6

G. Zhu et al.                                                                                                                                                                                            C  h  e m   i c a  l   E  n  g i n  e e  r i n  g   J  o  u  r n  a l 500 (2024) 157259
Fig. 8. Impact of high-concentration sodium chloride (NaCl) immersion treatment on the recycling performance of HRH; (b) The analysis of Fe leaching in different
systems; (c-d) Surface morphology of HRH after the first catalytic reaction; (e-f) surface morphology of HRH after the first catalytic reaction with immersion
treatment of high-chloride salt.
|     |     | (cid:0) |     | •   |     |     | •-. When n[MeOH/  |     |
| --- | --- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------------- | --- |
(1000–5000 mg/L) of single SO4 2-, Cl-, and NO3 or a combination all  with  OH playing a more crucial role compared to SO4
(cid:0)
three anions (SO4 2-, Cl-, and NO3 , 1500–4500 mg/L), demonstrating  TBA]: n[PMS] =5000:1, SMT removal was almost completely inhibited,
excellent resistance to high salinity (Fig. 5c-f).  with only 5.89 % and 15.54 % of SMT being degraded, respectively.
|                            |                |     |     | H o w e v e r ,  | a t   n [ P B Q ] :  n [ | P M S ]   = 1 0 :1 ,   | o n l y   4 0   %   o f  S | M T  w a s  de g r a d e d ,  |
| -------------------------- | -------------- | --- | --- | ---------------- | ------------------------ | ---------------------- | -------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| •(cid:0) +Cl (cid:0) → SO4 | 2(cid:0) +Cl • |     |     |                  |                          |                        |                            |                               |
SO4 (4) an d  i n c r e a s i n g   P B Q   c o n c en t r a tio n   d i d   n o t   f u r th e r   in h ib it  S M T   d e g r a-
| • (cid:0) | •(cid:0) |     |     |     |     |     | •- compared to  | •   |
| --------- | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------- | --- |
OH +Cl → HOCl (5) dation. This underscores the minor contribution of O2 OH
• -
|     |     |     |     | and  S O 4 i | n  S M T   d e g ra d | a ti o n  w i t h i n   th | e  H R H / P M S  sy | s t e m . |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | --------------------- | -------------------------- | -------------------- | --------- |
H ++HOCl •(cid:0) → Cl •+H2O                                                             (6) ’s
|     |     |     |     | A d d i t i | o n a lly ,  t h e  n o n | -r a d ic al   p a t h w | a y  r ol e  i n S M | T   d e gr adation was  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | ------------------------- | ------------------------ | -------------------- | ----------------------- |
•+Cl (cid:0) •(cid:0) f u r th er   in v e s t ig a t e d   i n   t h e   H R H / P M S   s y s te m .  W h e n   1   m M  F F A   w a s
| Cl → Cl2          |         |     | (7) |                  |                            | 1                      |                          |                               |
| ----------------- | ------- | --- | --- | ---------------- | -------------------------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------ | ----------------------------- |
|                   |         |     |     | a d d ed  a s  a |   q u e n c h e r   t o  s | c a v e n g e  O 2,  a |   s li g h t i n hi b it | io n   o f  SM T   de g r a - |
| •(cid:0) •(cid:0) | (cid:0) |     |     |                  |                            |                        |                          |                               |
Cl2 +Cl2 → Cl2  +2Cl (8) dation was observed. However, further increasing the FFA concentration
did not result in any additional inhibition of SMT degradation (Fig.S4).
| •(cid:0) +Cl •→ Cl2  | +Cl (cid:0) |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------------------- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
Cl2 (9) Moreover, only 42.99 % of PMSO was converted to PMSO2 in the HRH/
++HOCl +Cl (cid:0) PMS system (Fig.S5), suggesting that while 1O2 and high-valent iron
| Cl2  +H2O → H |     |     | (10) |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------- | --- | --- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
participate in the degradation of SMT, they are not the primary reactive
HSO5 - +Cl (cid:0) → SO4 2(cid:0) +HOCl                                                         (11) species responsible for SMT degradation in the HRH/PMS system. In
|     |     |     |     |                                   |     | •          | •- are the primary degra- |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------------------- | --- | ---------- | ------------------------- | --- |
|     |     |     |     | summary, it can be inferred that  |     | OH and SO4 |                           |     |
dation reactive species in the HRH/PMS system [37–40].
To gain deeper insights into the surface element composition and
3.3. Mechanism of HRH/PMS for the degradation of SMT chemical state changes of HRH before and after the reaction, we con-
ducted XPS analysis and performed carbon correction on the spectral
Following the demonstration of the HRH/PMS system’s efficiency in  data to ensure accuracy. In Fig. 7a, it was evident that the XPS spectrum
degrading SMT, we delved deeper into the reactant species and reaction  effectively indexed the phase elements of the catalyst. Analysis of the Fe
pathways involved in its degradation to elucidate the underlying  2p spectrum in Fig. 7b revealed characteristic peaks corresponding to Fe
•
mechanism. As illustrated in Fig. 6a, the presence of DMPO-OH and  (III) and Fe(II) on the freshly prepared HRH, indicating oxidation re-
DMPO-SO4 •- signals in PMS-containing systems was observed, with the  actions on the HRH surface in the ambient environment [41]. The re-
HRH/PMS system exhibiting the most intense signals. Furthermore,  •(cid:0)
|     |     |     |     | action between Fe(II) and PMS, generating SO4 |     |     | (Eq. (12)), followed by  |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | ------------------------ | --- |
•- signal in the HRH/PMS system. This  • • (cid:0) (Eqs. (13)–(15)) with H2O or OH (cid:0)
Fig. 6b reveals a notable DMPO-O2 further conversion into  OH and  O2 ,
• •-,
suggests the generation of abundant reactive species such as  OH, SO4 resulted in the consumption of Fe(II) and its eventual conversion to Fe
•- by the HRH/PMS system, facilitating SMT degradation [36].
and O2 (III). Quantitative analysis showed a slight decrease in surface Fe(II)
Subsequently, a series of quenching experiments depicted in Fig. 6c were  content from 56.18 % to 49.86 % before and after the reaction. XRD
conducted to evaluate the role of these reactive species in SMT degra- analysis (Fig. 7c) confirmed a reduction in zero-valent iron content,
dation within the HRH/PMS process. The results showed that as the  indicating its involvement in the persulfate activation process and rapid
quenching agent concentration increased, the removal of SMT gradually  regeneration of Fe(II) by reacting with surface Fe(III) [42–45,25].
decreased. Notably, MeOH consistently exhibited a higher inhibitory  Moreover, consistent saturation magnetization values of approximately
effect on the reaction compared to TBA. This observation indicated that  100 emu/g before and after the reaction (Fig. 7d) indicated strong
| both  • OH and SO4 | •- played significant roles in the degradation of SMT,  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
7

G. Zhu et al. C h e m i c a l E n g i n e e r i n g J o u r n a l 500 (2024) 157259
Fig. 9. (a) Possible degradation pathways of SMT in HRH/PMS processes; (b) Van Krevenlen diagrams of degradation products; (c) Quadrant distribution map of the
intermediates.
magnetism, facilitating easy recycling under external magnetic fields. was observed, thereby reducing the loss of effective components in HRH
The finding underscored the recyclability of HRH materials. (Fig. 8e-f). In summary, high-chloride salt immersion helped reduce
Fe2++HSO5 (cid:0) → Fe3++SO4 •(cid:0) +OH (cid:0) (12) c e a x t t a e l n y d s i t n g e t r h o e si o ca n t al a y n s d t’ s i l m ife p s r p o a v n e [4 it 5 s ] . catalytic performance, thereby
SO4 •(cid:0) +OH (cid:0) → • OH +SO4 2(cid:0) (13)
SO4 •(cid:0) +H2O → • OH +SO4 2(cid:0) +H + (14) 3.4. Degradation pathway and toxicity assessment of SMT by the HRH/
PMS system
SO4 •(cid:0) +2 • OH → O2 •(cid:0) +SO4 2(cid:0) +2H + (15)
Based on the mass spectrum analysis of SMT degradation products
The reusability of catalysts was a crucial factor in assessing their
(Fig. S6), three potential degradation pathways for SMT were proposed,
practical application in wastewater treatment. As shown in Fig. 8a, after
as shown in Fig. 9a: a. Oxidation of the amino group linked to 6C to form
five cycles of reuse, the removal efficiency of SMT by HRH/PMS
a nitro group; b. Ring opening reactions at 24 N and 25 N; c. Detachment
decreased to 70 %. After the first reaction, the HRH material released 5
of the O
––S ––O
group between 3C and 17 N. Table S2 lists the main
mg/L of Fe ions into the solution, while after the fifth reaction, the
intermediate products of SMT degradation and their corresponding
concentration of released Fe ions remained high at 3.5 mg/L (Fig. 8b).
structures. By calculating the H/C and O/C ratios of the intermediate
Post-reaction, the HRH material exhibited surface erosion, forming
products and using SMT as the reference point, the intermediate prod-
pores ranging from 0.1 μm to 0.5 μm in size (Fig. 8c-d). Prior to the
ucts have been categorized into four quadrants. Fig. 9b shows the dis-
reaction, HRH material was pre-treated by soaking it in a 25 mM NaCl
tribution of intermediate products in each quadrant. Fig. 9c indicates
solution for one hour. This treatment significantly improved the stability
that the intermediate products mainly distributed in the first and fourth
of HRH in activating PMS for SMT degradation, with the removal rate of
quadrants, accounting for approximately 65 % of the total intermediate
SMT still maintained at 90 % after five additional cycles. The release of
products, suggesting that the degradation pathways of SMT primarily
Fe ions decreased by more than half, and no significant surface erosion
involved oxygenation reactions for product elimination [27,46].
8

G. Zhu et al. C h e m i c a l E n g i n e e r i n g J o u r n a l 500 (2024) 157259
Fig. 10. The corresponding to the fA (2) values of each atoms on intermediate products of SMT oxidation in the HRH/PMS system. (Blue: N atoms; Red: O atoms;
Yellow: S atoms; Gray: N atoms; White: H atoms).
9

G. Zhu et al. C h e m i c a l E n g i n e e r i n g J o u r n a l 500 (2024) 157259
Combining DFT calculations and fA (2) descriptor predictions, the of Metallurgical Emission Reduction & Resources Recycling (Anhui
susceptible sites for attack on SMT and its degradation intermediates University of Technology), Ministry of Education (No. JKF24-01).
were forecasted. From Fig. 10, it is observed that the fA (2) values for the
11 N and 17 N positions on the SMT molecule are (cid:0) 0.073 and (cid:0) 0.0432, Appendix A. Supplementary data
respectively, indicating their susceptibility to attack by electrophilic
species [47]. Additionally, sites such as 20C, 21C, 25 N, and 24 N on the Supplementary data to this article can be found online at https://doi.
SMT molecule are prone to nucleophilic species attack, with corre- org/10.1016/j.cej.2024.157259.
sponding fA (2) values of 0.0571, 0.053, 0.0457, and 0.0314, respectively.
Attack on these sites may result in reactions such as the detachment of Data availability
the O
––S ––O
group, oxidation of the amino group linked to 11C, and
ring opening reactions. Intermediate P1 undergoes benzene ring Data will be made available on request.
detachment and OH addition to form P4, followed by deamination and
hydroxylation to generate P8 and P12. P2 transforms into small mole- References
cules P10 and P13 through a series of hydroxylation, carboxylation, and
detachment of O
––S ––O
groups (P5, P6, P9). In P3, the amino group [1] A. Hassani, J. Scaria, F. Ghanbari, et al., Sulfate radicals-based advanced oxidation
transforms into a hydroxyl group to form P7, followed by ring opening processes for the degradation of pharmaceuticals and personal care products: a
review on relevant activation mechanisms, performance, and perspectives,
and addition reactions to produce P11 and P14. Additionally, the
Environ. Res. 217 (2023) 114789, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envres.2022.114789.
developmental toxicity of SMT and its degradation products was eval- [2] J. Ji, Q. Zhu, X. Yang, et al., Review of biodegradation of sulfonamide antibiotics
uated and predicted using T.E.S.T. As shown in Fig. S7, from SMT to influenced by dissolved organic matter and iron oxides, J. Environ. Chem. Eng. 11
(5) (2023) 111020, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jece.2023.111020.
degradation products P1-P14, except for P2 and P5, the overall devel-
[3] J. Tang, J. Wang, Metal organic framework with coordinatively unsaturated sites as
opmental toxicity decreases, indicating the environmental friendliness efficient Fenton-like catalyst for enhanced degradation of sulfamethazine, Environ.
and practical application potential of HRH/PMS in SMT degradation Sci. Technol. 52 (9) (2018) 5367–5377, https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.8b00092.
[48–52]. [4] X. Hu, M. Zhu, Were persulfate-based advanced oxidation processes really
understood? basic concepts, cognitive biases, and experimental details, Environ.
Sci. Technol. 58 (24) (2024) 10415–10444, https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.
4. Conclusion est.3c10898.
[5] D. Zhou, Z. Li, X. Hu, et al., Single atom catalyst in persulfate oxidation reaction:
from atom species to substance, Small 20 (30) (2024) 2311691, https://doi.org/
The HRH catalyst was successfully synthesized by reducing hematite 10.1002/smll.202311691.
powder with hydrogen. The HRH/PMS process was able to effectively [6] C. Pu, G. Lu, H. Qi, et al., Enhanced persulfate activation process by magnetically
activate PMS, resulting in the rapid and complete degradation of SMT separable catalysts for water purification: a review, Chin. J. Struct. Chem. 42 (6)
pollutants, with a first-order reaction rate constant of 0.135 min (cid:0) 1. This (2023) 100093, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cjsc.2023.100093.
[7] Z. Li, S. Lan, M. Zhu, Piezoelectricity activates persulfate for water treatment: a
process showed significantly higher SMT removal efficiency compared perspective, Environ. Sci. Ecotechnol. 18 (2024) 100329, https://doi.org/10.1016/
to the hematite, HRH, PMS, and hematite/PMS processes. In the HRH/ j.ese.2023.100329.
[8] H. Lin, B. Jie, J. Ye, et al., Recent advance of macroscopic metal-organic
PMS system, Fe(II) on the HRH surface reacted with PMS, generating a
large number of reactive species, with
•
OH and SO4
•-
playing crucial roles
f
h
r
t
a
t
m
ps
e
:/
w
/
o
d
r
o
k
i
s
.o
f
r
o
g
r
/ 1
w
0
a
.
t
1
e
0
r
1
t
6
re
/
a
j.
t
s
m
ur
e
fi
n
n
t:
. 2
a
0
r
2
e
2
v
.
i
1
e
0
w
2
,
5
S
6
u
4
r
.
f. Interfaces. 36 (2024) 102564,
in the degradation of SMT. This ensured efficient degradation of SMT [9] S. He, E. Wu, M. Shen, et al., Role of substituents in the removal of emerging
pollutants and resistance to high concentrations of anions (Cl-, NO3 (cid:0) and fl
tr
u
e
o
at
r
m
in
e
a
n
te
t,
d
A
li
C
q
S
u i
E
d
S
c
T
r y
E
s
n
t
g
al
. 3
m o
(5
n
)
o m
(2
e
0
r
2
p
2
o
)
l
6
lu
5
t
1
a
–
n
6
ts
6 0
u
,
n
h
d
t
e
t
r
p s
th
:/
e
/ d
U
o
V
i.
/
o
p
r
e
g
r
/
o
1
x
0
y
.
d
1
i
0
s
2
u
1
lf
/
a te
SO4 2-) in high-salinity environments. Before the reaction, HRH was acsestengg.2c00373.
soaked in a high-chlorine salt solution to reduce the erosion of the HRH [10] C. Liang, S. Yin, P. Huang, et al., The critical role of minerals in persulfate-based
advanced oxidation process: catalytic properties, mechanism, and prospects, Chem.
surface and the leaching of active Fe components, thereby enhancing the
Eng. J. 482 (2024) 148969, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2024.148969.
recycling performance of HRH. Through DFT calculations and LC-MS [11] X. Zhang, J. Wei, C. Wang, et al., Recent advance of Fe-based bimetallic persulfate
analysis, three degradation pathways of SMT were proposed, leading activation catalysts for antibiotics removal: performance, mechanism, contribution
to the formation of low-toxicity small molecules. This study utilized a of the key ROSs and degradation pathways, Chem. Eng. J. 487 (2024) 150514,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2024.150514.
simple hydrogen treatment process for natural minerals, providing an [12] F. Chen, X.T. Huang, C.W. Bai, et al., Advancements in heterogeneous activation of
efficient, stable, and cost-effective solution for the degradation of anti- persulfates: exploring mechanisms, challenges in organic wastewater treatment,
biotic wastewater. and innovative solutions, Chem. Eng. J. 481 (2024) 148789, https://doi.org/
10.1016/j.cej.2024.148789.
[13] C. Nie, J. Wang, B. Cai, et al., Multifunctional roles of MoS2 in persulfate-based
CRediT authorship contribution statement advanced oxidation processes for eliminating aqueous organic pollutants: a review,
Appl. Catal. B Environ. 340 (2023) 123173, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
Guomin Zhu: Writing – original draft, Formal analysis, Data cura- apcatb.2023.123173.
[14] P. Zhang, Y. Yang, X. Duan, et al., Oxidative polymerization versus degradation of
tion. Jing Ding: Investigation, Formal analysis. Annan Dou: Data organic pollutants in heterogeneous catalytic persulfate chemistry, Water Res. 255
curation. Qiyan Xu: Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Funding (2024) 121485, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.watres.2024.121485.
acquisition. Jingling Yang: Writing – review & editing, Supervision, [15] P. Wang, H. Zhang, Z. Wu, et al., A data-based review on norfloxacin degradation
by persulfate-based advanced oxidation processes: Systematic evaluation and
Funding acquisition. Yilong Ji: Investigation, Data curation. Gang Lu: mechanisms, Chin. Chem. Lett. 34 (12) (2023) 108722, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
Writing – review & editing. Mingshan Zhu: Supervision. cclet.2023.108722.
[16] L. Sawunyama, O.A. Oyewo, N. Seheri, et al., Metal oxide functionalized ceramic
membranes for the removal of pharmaceuticals in wastewater, Surf. Interfaces. 38
Declaration of competing interest (2023) 102787, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.surfin.2023.102787.
[17] L. Ge, B. Shao, Q. Liang, et al., Layered double hydroxide based materials applied
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial in persulfate based advanced oxidation processes: property, mechanism,
application and perspectives, J. Hazard. Mater. 424 (2022) 127612, https://doi.
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence org/10.1016/j.jhazmat.2021.127612.
the work reported in this paper. [18] W. Chen, C. Sun, Y. Zhang, et al., Oxidative aromatization of 3, 4-dihydroquinolin-
2 (1 H)-ones to quinolin-2 (1 H)-ones using transition-metal-activated persulfate
salts, J. Org. Chem. 84 (13) (2019) 8702–8709, https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.
Acknowledgements joc.9b00756.
[19] C. Su, C. Tang, Z. Sun, et al., Mechanisms of interaction between metal-organic
This work was supported by National Natural Science Foundation of framework-based material and persulfate in degradation of organic contaminants
(OCs): activation, reactive oxygen generation, conversion, and oxidation,
China-Xinjiang Joint Fund: U2003124, National Natural Science Foun-
J. Environ. Manage. 347 (2023) 119089, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
dation of China: No. 51974001, and the Open Project of Key Laboratory jenvman.2023.119089.
10

G. Zhu et al. C h e m i c a l E n g i n e e r i n g J o u r n a l 500 (2024) 157259
[20] H. Ji, Y. Xu, H. Shi, et al., Enhanced activation of persulfate by magnetic NiFe2O4@ [37] J. Zhang, W. Wang, W. Gao, et al., Great increasing N content in Fe-embedded
CuO coupled with ultrasonic for degradation of oxytetracycline: activation carbon nanotubes to effectively activate persulfate for radical and nonradical
mechanism and degradation pathway, Appl. Surf. Sci. 652 (2024) 159373, https:// degradation of organic contaminants, Sep. Purif. Technol. 330 (2024) 125429,
doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2024.159373. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.seppur.2023.125429.
[21] H. Kang, D. Lee, K.M. Lee, et al., Nonradical activation of peroxymonosulfate by [38] C. Bai, W. Guo, Q. Liu, et al., Cu2O/BiVO4 heterostructure controllably triggers
hematite for oxidation of organic compounds: a novel mechanism involving high- radical and non-radical persulfate activation via light “on-off” for efficient organic
valent iron species, Chem. Eng. J. 426 (2021) 130743, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. contaminants degradation, Appl. Catal. B Environ. 344 (2024) 123606, https://doi.
cej.2021.130743. org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2023.123606.
[22] R. Guo, Y. Chen, B. Liu, et al., Catalytic degradation of lomefloxacin by photo- [39] J. Gao, L. Zhang, Z. Xu, et al., Degradation of 1, 2, 3-trichloropropane in aqueous
assisted persulfate activation on natural hematite: performance and mechanism, solution by ZVI-enhanced Fenton system: Performances and mechanisms,
Chin. Chem. Lett. 33 (8) (2022) 3809–3817, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. J. Environ. Chem. Eng. 11 (5) (2023) 110432, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
cclet.2021.11.061. jece.2023.110432.
[23] Q. Qin, T. Liu, J. Zhang, et al., Facile synthesis of oxygen vacancies enriched [40] M. Zhang, W. Guo, Y. Chen, et al., Dissolved oxygen in aeration-driven piezo-
α-Fe2O3 for peroxymonosulfate activation: a non-radical process for catalytic for antibiotics pollutants removal in water, Chin. Chem. Lett. 34 (9)
sulfamethoxazole degradation, J. Hazard. Mater. 419 (2021) 126447, https://doi. (2023) 108229, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cclet.2023.108229.
org/10.1016/j.jhazmat.2021.126447. [41] A. Adel, M.G. Alalm, H.K. El-Etriby, et al., Optimization and mechanism insights
[24] X. Zhang, W. Gu, D. Liu, et al., Fe (II) and Pyridinic N complex sites synergy to into the sulfamethazine degradation by bimetallic ZVI/Cu nanoparticles coupled
activate PMS for specific generation of 1O2 to degrade antibiotics with high with H2O2, J. Environ. Chem. Eng. 8 (5) (2020) 104341, https://doi.org/10.1016/
efficiency, Sci. Total. Environ. 892 (2023) 164067, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. j.jece.2020.104341.
scitotenv.2023.164067. [42] Z. Bu, M. Hou, Z. Li, et al.,
Fe3+ /Fe2+
cycle promoted peroxymonosulfate
[25] T. Lu, F. Chen, Multiwfn: a multifunctional wavefunction analyzer, J. Comput. activation with addition of boron for sulfamethazine degradation: efficiency and
Chem. 33 (5) (2012) 580–592, https://doi.org/10.1002/jcc.22885. the role of boron, Sep. Purif. Technol. 298 (2022) 121596, https://doi.org/
[26] J. Oh, D. Noh, The reduction kinetics of hematite particles in H2 and CO 10.1016/j.seppur.2022.121596.
atmospheres, Fuel 196 (2017) 144–153, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. [43] T.D. Trang, T.C. Khiem, E. Kwon, et al., Interface-engineered hollow carbon
fuel.2016.10.125. matrix-supported FeCo alloy as an enhanced magnetic activator for
[27] E.T. Turkdogan, R.G. Olsson, J.V. Vinters, Gaseous reduction of iron oxides: Part II. peroxymonosulfate to degrade an endocrine disruptor in water: a comparative
Pore characteristics of iron reduced from hematite in hydrogen, Metall. Mater. study for elucidating advantageous roles of Fe-dopant, Surf. Interfaces 42 (2023)
Trans b. 2 (1971) 3189–3196, https://doi.org/10.1007/BF02814971. 103338, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.surfin.2023.103338.
[28] Q. Song, H. Zhao, Q. Ma, et al., Catalytic upgrading of coal volatiles with Fe2O3 and [44] C. Kim, T.C. Schmidt, H.V. Lutze, Oxidation of bromide by heat-activated
hematite by TG-FTIR and Py-GC/MS, Fuel. 313 (2022) 122667, https://doi.org/ persulfate–Effects of temperature and the organic matter surrogate phenol on
10.1016/j.fuel.2021.122667. kinetics and stoichiometry, Chem. Eng. J. 433 (2022) 133533, https://doi.org/
[29] W. Liu, Y. Chen, L. Wang, et al., The visible optical driving NS co-doped La2Ti2O7 10.1016/j.cej.2021.133533.
activated peroxydisulfate for carbamazepine removal: mechanism and [45] L. Su, K. Chen, Y. Cai, et al., Advanced oxidation of bio-treated incineration
performance, Chem. Eng. J. 481 (2024) 148632, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. leachate by persulfate combined with heat, UV254 nm, and UV365 nm: kinetics,
cej.2024.148632. mechanism, and toxicity, J. Hazard. Mater. 461 (2024) 132670, https://doi.org/
[30] J. Song, W. Fang, J. Lai, et al., Conditioning fecal sludge of public toilets with 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2023.132670.
coupled zero-valent iron and persulfate: efficiency and mechanism, J. Hazard. [46] J. Lai, T. Tang, X. Du, et al., Oxidation of 1, 3-diphenylguanidine (DPG) by goethite
Mater. 455 (2023) 131615, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhazmat.2023.131615. activated persulfate: mechanisms, products identification and reaction sites
[31] J. Liang, K. Chen, X. Duan, et al., pH-dependent generation of radical and prediction, Environ. Res. 232 (2023) 116308, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
nonradical species for sulfamethoxazole degradation in different carbon/persulfate envres.2023.116308.
systems, Water Res. 224 (2022) 119113, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. [47] Q. Liu, H. Qie, Z. Sun, et al., Elevated degradation of di-n-butyl phthalate by
watres.2022.119113. activating peroxymonosulfate over GO-CoFe2O4 composites: synergistic effects and
[32] N. Zrinyi, A.L.T. Pham, Oxidation of benzoic acid by heat-activated persulfate: mechanisms, Chin. Chem. Lett. 34 (12) (2023) 108397, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
effect of temperature on transformation pathway and product distribution, Water cclet.2023.108397.
Res. 120 (2017) 43–51, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.watres.2017.04.066. [48] N. Li, J. Ye, H. Dai, et al., A critical review on correlating active sites, oxidative
[33] M.A. Alotaibi, A.I. Alharthi, A. Ahmed, et al., Highly efficient degradation of species and degradation routes with persulfate-based antibiotics oxidation, Water
moxifloxacin through heterogeneous activation of peroxymonosulfate using Co3O4- Res. 235 (2023) 119926, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.watres.2023.119926.
g-C3N4 composites: optimization of interfering factors, Surf. Interfaces. 52 (2024) [49] F. Zhu, H. Lu, T. Li, et al., Degradation on BDE209 in the soil by kaolin-supported
104788, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.surfin.2024.104788. sulfurized nano-zero-valent iron activated persulfate system: insights mechanism
[34] Z. Xu, L. Tang, Y. Zhou, et al., Utilizing the immanent chloride ions in wastewater and DFT calculations, J. Environ. Chem. Eng. 12 (1) (2024) 111882, https://doi.
for reactive chlorine species photogeneration towards effective ammonia nitrogen org/10.1016/j.jece.2024.111882.
removal, Chem. Eng. J. 493 (2024) 152589, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. [50] M. Wang, Y. Wang, Y. Li, et al., Persulfate oxidation of tetracycline, antibiotic
cej.2024.152589. resistant bacteria, and resistance genes activated by Fe doped biochar catalysts:
[35] Y. Zhou, Z. Xu, L. Tang, et al., Internal electric field facilitates facet-dependent Synergy of radical and non-radical processes, Chem. Eng. J. 464 (2023) 142558,
photocatalytic Cl–utilization on BiOCl in high-salinity wastewater for ammonium https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2023.142558.
removal, Environ. Sci. Technol. 58 (13) (2024) 6049–6057, https://doi.org/ [51] D. Ma, Y. Yang, B. Liu, et al., Zero-valent iron and biochar composite with high
10.1021/acs.est.4c00546. specific surface area via K2FeO4 fabrication enhances sulfadiazine removal by
[36] D. Ma, J. Mei, Q. Liang, et al., Recent advances in nanomaterial-enhanced persulfate activation, Chem. Eng. J. 408 (2021) 127992, https://doi.org/10.1016/
persulfate activation for organic pollutants removal: electron transfer, surface j.cej.2020.127992.
reactions, and radical generation, J. Environ Chem. Eng. (2023) 111511, https:// [52] R. Wen, L. Yang, S. Wu, et al., Tuning surface sites to boost photocatalytic
doi.org/10.1016/j.jece.2023.111511. degradation of phenol and ciprofloxacin, Chin. Chem. Lett. 34 (1) (2023) 107204,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cclet.2022.02.010.
11
